# Hridai
It’s an irrefutable fact that Cardiovascular diseases also referred as CVDs are the leading cause of deaths globally. It has been estimated that 17.9 million people died from CVDs in 2019, representing 32% of all global deaths. 85% of these deaths were primarily due to heart attack and stroke. According to the statistics, in the year 2019 there had been 17 million premature deaths due to noncommunicable diseases, out of these deaths 38% were caused by CVDs. It has been observed that India has one of the highest burdens of cardiovascular diseases worldwide. The annual number of deaths from CVDs in India is projected to rise from 2.26 million in 1990 to 4.77 million in 2020. 

Over the past several decades, various estimates have been carried out regarding the prevalence rates of coronary heart disease in India which predicted the occurrence of this particular disease to  range from 1.6% to 7.4% in rural populations and from 1% to 13.2% in urban populations. CVDs also account for 45% of deaths in the 40-69 year age group.

Over the past two decades, the prevalence of CVDs in India has risen due to population growth, aging and a lot of other factors. Over the same time period, while the trend has begun to plateau in India, the United States has experienced an overall decline in age-adjusted CVD mortality. These improvements in CVD mortality in the United States are primarily due to favorable population-level risk factor trends, specifically with regard to tobacco use, cholesterol, and blood pressure. 
India needs to implement population-level policies while strengthening and integrating its local, regional, and national health systems in order to achieve similar results in reducing premature death and disability from CVDs. The achievement of universal health coverage along with financial risk protection should remain the ultimate goal which should help all Indians realize their right to health.
